A in this video we're going to learn how to insert data into tables and we're going to be doing that
by inserting some data into our products table.
So I'm in my coffee store database I've selected stuff from products and you can see down here we have
the products table.
So you have the ID field the name field the price field and the coffee origin field.
So to insert data into a table we need to use this syntax here.
So we type insert into followed by the table name and then we open a pair of brackets.
And we then we have our column names comma separated we follow that by the values keyword and then open
another pair of brackets and have our values comma separated as well.
So let's since our first row of data into our products table.
So we need to type insert into pro-tax open a pair of brackets me to enter in all our columns apart
from our ID column.
And this is because we made this ID column primary key and we made it autoincrement.
So this is going to be automatically filled as we enter in every row of data in our table.
So we need to start with the name column and for that with a comma and then price Colma coffee origin
and then on the next line we need to type values
open a pair of brackets and we need to finish with those I mean carried on.
So in the brackets we need to type or first we're going to sell and it's going to be espresso coffee.
So we get to go in and type espresso
and for what sort of strings we need to have the value in single quotes but for numbers we don't need
the single quotes.
So for our price column we can simply type 2.5 0 without a single case.
And then for the coffee origin column we need the single quotes again because it's a string and we need
to type Brazil.
And then if we run this statement
and select stuff from Puddock again we can see we have our first row of data entered into our products
table.
Now you can enter more than one row of table in one as Schiro stateman.
So if we just copy this line
and if we change this data to our next product that we're going to sell which is going to be more catchier
priced three pounds or three dollars and that's all going to be from Brazil.
But let's enter another row of dates and the same is statement.
So let's put a comb my hair open a pair of brackets and enter another free values.
So the next product is going to be a cappuccino
and it's got two piece
which is going to be priced at three point five zero.
And this is going to be from Costa Rica
So let's run this statement and select stuff from products again.
And you can see entered both rows of data in one escrow statement.
So to enter four rows of data in one insert into statement we need to have of value brackets comma separated
and you can keep doing this as many times as you want to start another comma here for another pair of
brackets.
Enter another row of data so we have free rows of data entered into our products table.
But now I want you to enter the next four rows of data.
So I want and I want you to end the four rows which have ID 4 5 6 and 7 here.
So the latte American A-flat y filter.
So right the insert into statement to enter these last four rows of data and I'll be back with the solution
in a second
case.
Here is the solution.
We have insight into products named Price coffee origin and then we have values latte Americano flat
white and filter or comma separated.
So I hope you are able to do this and then we just need to run that statement
and we can select stuff from products again and I can see we have all seven products entered into our
products table.
So that's it for inserting data into tables.
Now let's move on to how we can update data that's already been entered into a table.